README.md, before:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](/LICENSE)
[![Twitter: elbruno](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/elbruno.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/elbruno)
![GitHub: elbruno](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/elbruno?style=social)

## Description

**eShopLite - Semantic Search** is a reference .NET application implementing an eCommerce site with Search features using Keyword Search and Semantic Search.

- [Features](#features)
- [Architecture diagram](#architecture-diagram)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Deploying to Azure](#deploying)
- Run solution
  - [Run locally](#run-locally)
  - [Run the solution](#run-the-solution)
  - [.NET Aspire Azure Resources creation](#net-aspire-azure-resources-creation)
  - [Local dev using an existing model](#local-development-using-an-existing-gpt-4o-model)
  - [Telemetry with .NET Aspire and Azure Application Insights](#telemetry-with-net-aspire-and-azure-application-insights)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Video Recordings](#video-recordings)
- [Guidance](#guidance)
  - [Costs](#costs)
  - [Security Guidelines](#security-guidelines)
- [Resources](#resources)

## Features

**GitHub CodeSpaces:** This project is designed to be opened in GitHub Codespaces as an easy way for anyone to deploy the solution entirely in the browser.

This is the eShopLite Aplication running, performing a **Keyword Search**:

![eShopLite Aplication running doing search using keyworkd search](./images/05eShopLite-SearchKeyWord.gif)

This is the eShopLite Aplication running, performing a **Semantic Search**:

![eShopLite Aplication running doing search using keyworkd search](./images/06eShopLite-SearchSemantic.gif)

The Aspire Dashboard to check the running services:

![Aspire Dashboard to check the running services](./images/10AzureResources.png)

The Azure Resource Group with all the deployed services:

![Azure Resource Group with all the deployed services](./images/15AspireDashboard.png)

## Architecture diagram

![Architecture diagram](./images/30Diagram.png)

## Getting Started

The solution is in the `./src` folder, the main solution is **[eShopLite-Aspire.sln](./src/eShopLite-Aspire.sln)**.

## Deploying

Once you've opened the project in [Codespaces](#github-codespaces), or [locally](#run-locally), you can deploy it to Azure.

From a Terminal window, open the folder with the clone of this repo and run the following commands.

1. Login to Azure:

    ```shell
    azd auth login
    ```

1. Provision and deploy all the resources:

    ```shell
    azd up
    ```

    It will prompt you to provide an `azd` environment name (like "eShopLite"), select a subscription from your Azure account, and select a [location where OpenAI the models gpt-4o-mini and ADA-002 are available](https://azure.microsoft.com/explore/global-infrastructure/products-by-region/?products=cognitive-services&regions=all) (like "eastus2").

1. When `azd` has finished deploying, you'll see the list of resources created in Azure and a set of URIs in the command output.

1. Visit the **store** URI, and you should see the **eShop Lite app**! 🎉

1. This is an example of the command output:

![Deploy Azure Complete](./images/20AzdUpConsoleComplete.png)

1. **Coming Soon!** You can check this video with a 5 minutes overview of the deploy process from codespaces: [Deploy Your **eShopLite - Semantic Search** to Azure in Minutes!]().

***Note:** The deploy files are located in the `./src/eShopAppHost/infra/` folder. They are generated by the `Aspire AppHost` project.*

### GitHub CodeSpaces

- Create a new  Codespace using the `Code` button at the top of the repository.

![create Codespace](./images/25CreateCodeSpaces.png)

- The Codespace creation process can take a couple of minutes.

- Once the Codespace is loaded, it should have all the necessary requirements to deploy the solution.

### Run Locally

To run the project locally, you'll need to make sure the following tools are installed:

- [.NET 9](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/downloads/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Azure Developer CLI (azd)](https://aka.ms/install-azd)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) or [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)
  - If using Visual Studio Code, install the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit)
- .NET Aspire workload:
    Installed with the [Visual Studio installer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/fundamentals/setup-tooling?tabs=windows&pivots=visual-studio#install-net-aspire) or the [.NET CLI workload](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/fundamentals/setup-tooling?tabs=windows&pivots=visual-studio#install-net-aspire).
- An OCI compliant container runtime, such as:
  - [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) or [Podman](https://podman.io/).

### Run the solution

Follow these steps to run the project, locally or in CodeSpaces:

- Navigate to the Aspire Host folder project using the command:

  ```bash
  cd ./src/eShopAppHost/
  ```

- If you are running the project in Codespaces, you need to run this command:

  ```bash
  dotnet dev-certs https --trust
  ```

- By default the AppHost project creates the necessary resources on Azure. Check the **[.NET Aspire Azure Resources creation](#net-aspire-azure-resources-creation)** section to learn how to configure the project to create Azure resources.

- Run the project:

  ```bash
  dotnet run
  ````

Check the [Video Resources](#resources) for a step-by-step on how to run this project.

> **Note:** Working with .NET Aspire in GitHub Codespaces is not fully supported yet. As a developer you need to perform a lot of manual steps to access the .NET Aspire portal, like changing ports to public, copy the access token and more. The .NET Aspire version 9.1 will improve the whole developer experience. We will update these steps when the version 9.1 is released.

## .NET Aspire Azure Resources creation

When utilizing Azure resources in your local development environment, you need to:

- Authenticate to the Azure Tenant where the resources will be created. Run the following command to connect with your Azure tenant:

  ```bash
  az login 
  ```
- Provide the necessary Configuration values are specified under the Azure section in the `eShopAppHost` project:

  - CredentialSource: Delegates to the [AzureCliCredential](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.azureclicredential).
  - SubscriptionId: The Azure subscription ID.
  - AllowResourceGroupCreation: A boolean value that indicates whether to create a new resource group.
  - ResourceGroup: The name of the resource group to use.
  - Location: The Azure region to use.

Consider the following example for the *appsettings.json* file in the eShopAppHost project configuration:

```json
{
  "Azure": {
    "CredentialSource": "AzureCli",
    "SubscriptionId": "<Your subscription id>",
    "AllowResourceGroupCreation": true,
    "ResourceGroup": "<Valid resource group name>",
    "Location": "<Valid Azure location>"
  }
}
```

Check [.NET Aspire Azure hosting integrations](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/azure/local-provisioning#net-aspire-azure-hosting-integrations) for more information on how .NET Aspire create the necessary cloud resources for local development.

### Local development using an existing gpt-4o-mini and ada-002 model

In order to use existing models: gpt-4o-mini and text-embedding-ada-002, you need to define the specific connection string in the `Products` project.

Add a user secret with the configuration:

```bash
cd src/Products

dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:openaidev" "Endpoint=https://<endpoint>.openai.azure.com/;Key=<key>;"
```

This Azure OpenAI service must contain:

- a `gpt-4o-mini` model named **gpt-4o-mini**
- a `text-embedding-ada-002` model named **text-embedding-ada-002**

To use these services, edit the `program.cs`, and change this:

```csharp
// in dev scenarios rename this to "openaidev", and check the documentation to reuse existing AOAI resources
var azureOpenAiClientName = "openai";
builder.AddAzureOpenAIClient(azureOpenAiClientName);
```

to this:

```csharp
// in dev scenarios rename this to "openaidev", and check the documentation to reuse existing AOAI resources
var azureOpenAiClientName = "openaidev";
builder.AddAzureOpenAIClient(azureOpenAiClientName);
```

### Telemetry with .NET Aspire and Azure Application Insights

The eShopLite solution leverages the Aspire Dashboard and Azure Application Insights to provide comprehensive telemetry and monitoring capabilities

The **.NET Aspire Dashboard** offers a centralized view of the application's performance, health, and usage metrics. It integrates seamlessly with the Azure OpenAI services, allowing developers to monitor the performance of the `gpt-4o-mini` and `text-embedding-ada-002` models. The dashboard provides real-time insights into the application's behavior, helping to identify and resolve issues quickly.

![Aspire Dashboard](./images/40AspireDashboard.png)

**Azure Application Insights** complements the Aspire Dashboard by offering deep diagnostic capabilities and advanced analytics. It collects detailed telemetry data, including request rates, response times, and failure rates, enabling developers to understand how the application is performing under different conditions. Application Insights also provides powerful querying and visualization tools, making it easier to analyze trends and detect anomalies. 

![Azure Application Insights](./images/45AppInsightsDashboard.png)

By combining the Aspire Dashboard with Azure Application Insights, the eShopLite solution ensures robust monitoring and diagnostics, enhancing the overall reliability and performance of the application.

## Guidance

### Costs

For **Azure OpenAI Services**, pricing varies per region and usage, so it isn't possible to predict exact costs for your usage.
The majority of the Azure resources used in this infrastructure are on usage-based pricing tiers.
However, Azure Container Registry has a fixed cost per registry per day.

You can try the [Azure pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/2176802ea14941e4959eae8ad335aeb5) for the resources:

- Azure OpenAI Service: S0 tier, gpt-4o-mini and text-embedding-ada-002 models. Pricing is based on token count. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/openai-service/)
- Azure Container App: Consumption tier with 0.5 CPU, 1GiB memory/storage. Pricing is based on resource allocation, and each month allows for a certain amount of free usage. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/container-apps/)
- Azure Container Registry: Basic tier. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/container-registry/)
- Log analytics: Pay-as-you-go tier. Costs based on data ingested. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/)
- Azure Application Insights pricing is based on a Pay-As-You-Go model. [Pricing](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/cost-logs).

⚠️ To avoid unnecessary costs, remember to take down your app if it's no longer in use, either by deleting the resource group in the Portal or running `azd down`.

### Security Guidelines

Samples in this templates uses Azure OpenAI Services with ApiKey and [Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating to the Azure OpenAI service.

The Main Sample uses Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating to the Azure OpenAI service.

Additionally, we have added a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/microsoft/security-devops-action) that scans the infrastructure-as-code files and generates a report containing any detected issues. To ensure continued best practices in your own repository, we recommend that anyone creating solutions based on our templates ensure that the [Github secret scanning](https://docs.github.com/code-security/secret-scanning/about-secret-scanning) setting is enabled.

You may want to consider additional security measures, such as:

- Protecting the Azure Container Apps instance with a [firewall](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/waf-app-gateway) and/or [Virtual Network](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/networking?tabs=workload-profiles-env%2Cazure-cli).

## Resources

- [Deploy a .NET Aspire project to Azure Container Apps using the Azure Developer CLI (in-depth guide)](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire/deployment/azure/aca-deployment-azd-in-depth)

- [Aspiring .NET Applications with Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/shows/azure-developers-dotnet-aspire-day-2024/aspiring-dotnet-applications-with-azure-openai)

### Video Recordings

[![Run eShopLite Semantic Search in Minutes with .NET Aspire & GitHub Codespaces 🚀](./images/90ytrunfromcodespaces.png)](https://youtu.be/T9HwjVIDPAE)

Commit message:

Update README.md for Azure resource usage and setup
DETAILS

- Added instructions for reusing existing Azure resources.
- Included command to set user secrets for OpenAI connection strings.
- Clarified modifications needed in `program.cs` for Azure OpenAI client.
- Retained note on .NET Aspire support in GitHub Codespaces with version 9.1 improvements.
- Preserved telemetry section highlighting integration with Aspire Dashboard.

README.md, after:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](/LICENSE)
[![Twitter: elbruno](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/elbruno.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/elbruno)
![GitHub: elbruno](https://img.shields.io/github/followers/elbruno?style=social)

## Description

**eShopLite - Semantic Search** is a reference .NET application implementing an eCommerce site with Search features using Keyword Search and Semantic Search.

- [Features](#features)
- [Architecture diagram](#architecture-diagram)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Deploying to Azure](#deploying)
- Run solution
  - [Run locally](#run-locally)
  - [Run the solution](#run-the-solution)
  - [.NET Aspire Azure Resources creation](#net-aspire-azure-resources-creation)
  - [Local dev using an existing model](#local-development-using-an-existing-gpt-4o-model)
  - [Telemetry with .NET Aspire and Azure Application Insights](#telemetry-with-net-aspire-and-azure-application-insights)
- [Resources](#resources)
- [Video Recordings](#video-recordings)
- [Guidance](#guidance)
  - [Costs](#costs)
  - [Security Guidelines](#security-guidelines)
- [Resources](#resources)

## Features

**GitHub CodeSpaces:** This project is designed to be opened in GitHub Codespaces as an easy way for anyone to deploy the solution entirely in the browser.

This is the eShopLite Aplication running, performing a **Keyword Search**:

![eShopLite Aplication running doing search using keyworkd search](./images/05eShopLite-SearchKeyWord.gif)

This is the eShopLite Aplication running, performing a **Semantic Search**:

![eShopLite Aplication running doing search using keyworkd search](./images/06eShopLite-SearchSemantic.gif)

The Aspire Dashboard to check the running services:

![Aspire Dashboard to check the running services](./images/10AzureResources.png)

The Azure Resource Group with all the deployed services:

![Azure Resource Group with all the deployed services](./images/15AspireDashboard.png)

## Architecture diagram

![Architecture diagram](./images/30Diagram.png)

## Getting Started

The solution is in the `./src` folder, the main solution is **[eShopLite-Aspire.sln](./src/eShopLite-Aspire.sln)**.

## Deploying

Once you've opened the project in [Codespaces](#github-codespaces), or [locally](#run-locally), you can deploy it to Azure.

From a Terminal window, open the folder with the clone of this repo and run the following commands.

1. Login to Azure:

    ```shell
    azd auth login
    ```

1. Provision and deploy all the resources:

    ```shell
    azd up
    ```

    It will prompt you to provide an `azd` environment name (like "eShopLite"), select a subscription from your Azure account, and select a [location where OpenAI the models gpt-4o-mini and ADA-002 are available](https://azure.microsoft.com/explore/global-infrastructure/products-by-region/?products=cognitive-services&regions=all) (like "eastus2").

1. When `azd` has finished deploying, you'll see the list of resources created in Azure and a set of URIs in the command output.

1. Visit the **store** URI, and you should see the **eShop Lite app**! 🎉

1. This is an example of the command output:

![Deploy Azure Complete](./images/20AzdUpConsoleComplete.png)

***Note:** The deploy files are located in the `./src/eShopAppHost/infra/` folder. They are generated by the `Aspire AppHost` project.*

### GitHub CodeSpaces

- Create a new  Codespace using the `Code` button at the top of the repository.

![create Codespace](./images/25CreateCodeSpaces.png)

- The Codespace creation process can take a couple of minutes.

- Once the Codespace is loaded, it should have all the necessary requirements to deploy the solution.

### Run Locally

To run the project locally, you'll need to make sure the following tools are installed:

- [.NET 9](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/downloads/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
- [Azure Developer CLI (azd)](https://aka.ms/install-azd)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) or [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/)
  - If using Visual Studio Code, install the [C# Dev Kit](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit)
- .NET Aspire workload:
    Installed with the [Visual Studio installer](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/fundamentals/setup-tooling?tabs=windows&pivots=visual-studio#install-net-aspire) or the [.NET CLI workload](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/fundamentals/setup-tooling?tabs=windows&pivots=visual-studio#install-net-aspire).
- An OCI compliant container runtime, such as:
  - [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) or [Podman](https://podman.io/).

### Run the solution

Follow these steps to run the project, locally or in CodeSpaces:

- Navigate to the Aspire Host folder project using the command:

  ```bash
  cd ./src/eShopAppHost/
  ```

- If you are running the project in Codespaces, you need to run this command:

  ```bash
  dotnet dev-certs https --trust
  ```

- By default the AppHost project creates the necessary resources on Azure. Check the **[.NET Aspire Azure Resources creation](#net-aspire-azure-resources-creation)** section to learn how to configure the project to create Azure resources.

- If you want to reuse existing Azure resources, check the **[Local dev using an existing model](#local-development-using-an-existing-gpt-4o-mini-and-ada-002-model)** section.

- Run the project:

  ```bash
  dotnet run
  ````

Check the [Video Resources](#resources) for a step-by-step on how to run this project.

## .NET Aspire Azure Resources creation

When utilizing Azure resources in your local development environment, you need to:

- Authenticate to the Azure Tenant where the resources will be created. Run the following command to connect with your Azure tenant:

  ```bash
  az login 
  ```
- Provide the necessary Configuration values are specified under the Azure section in the `eShopAppHost` project:

  - CredentialSource: Delegates to the [AzureCliCredential](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.azureclicredential).
  - SubscriptionId: The Azure subscription ID.
  - AllowResourceGroupCreation: A boolean value that indicates whether to create a new resource group.
  - ResourceGroup: The name of the resource group to use.
  - Location: The Azure region to use.

Consider the following example for the *appsettings.json* file in the eShopAppHost project configuration:

```json
{
  "Azure": {
    "CredentialSource": "AzureCli",
    "SubscriptionId": "<Your subscription id>",
    "AllowResourceGroupCreation": true,
    "ResourceGroup": "<Valid resource group name>",
    "Location": "<Valid Azure location>"
  }
}
```

Check [.NET Aspire Azure hosting integrations](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/aspire/azure/local-provisioning#net-aspire-azure-hosting-integrations) for more information on how .NET Aspire create the necessary cloud resources for local development.

### Local development using an existing gpt-4o-mini and ada-002 model

In order to use existing models: gpt-4o-mini and text-embedding-ada-002, you need to define the specific connection string in the `Products` project.

Add a user secret with the configuration:

```bash
cd src/Products

dotnet user-secrets set "ConnectionStrings:openai" "Endpoint=https://<endpoint>.openai.azure.com/;Key=<key>;"
```

This Azure OpenAI service must contain:

- a `gpt-4o-mini` model named **gpt-4o-mini**
- a `text-embedding-ada-002` model named **text-embedding-ada-002**

To use these services, check the `program.cs` for these lines, where the Azure OpenAI client definition is loaded:

```csharp
var azureOpenAiClientName = "openai";
builder.AddAzureOpenAIClient(azureOpenAiClientName);
```

### Telemetry with .NET Aspire and Azure Application Insights

The eShopLite solution leverages the Aspire Dashboard and Azure Application Insights to provide comprehensive telemetry and monitoring capabilities

The **.NET Aspire Dashboard** offers a centralized view of the application's performance, health, and usage metrics. It integrates seamlessly with the Azure OpenAI services, allowing developers to monitor the performance of the `gpt-4o-mini` and `text-embedding-ada-002` models. The dashboard provides real-time insights into the application's behavior, helping to identify and resolve issues quickly.

![Aspire Dashboard](./images/40AspireDashboard.png)

**Azure Application Insights** complements the Aspire Dashboard by offering deep diagnostic capabilities and advanced analytics. It collects detailed telemetry data, including request rates, response times, and failure rates, enabling developers to understand how the application is performing under different conditions. Application Insights also provides powerful querying and visualization tools, making it easier to analyze trends and detect anomalies. 

![Azure Application Insights](./images/45AppInsightsDashboard.png)

By combining the Aspire Dashboard with Azure Application Insights, the eShopLite solution ensures robust monitoring and diagnostics, enhancing the overall reliability and performance of the application.

## Guidance

### Costs

For **Azure OpenAI Services**, pricing varies per region and usage, so it isn't possible to predict exact costs for your usage.
The majority of the Azure resources used in this infrastructure are on usage-based pricing tiers.
However, Azure Container Registry has a fixed cost per registry per day.

You can try the [Azure pricing calculator](https://azure.com/e/2176802ea14941e4959eae8ad335aeb5) for the resources:

- Azure OpenAI Service: S0 tier, gpt-4o-mini and text-embedding-ada-002 models. Pricing is based on token count. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/cognitive-services/openai-service/)
- Azure Container App: Consumption tier with 0.5 CPU, 1GiB memory/storage. Pricing is based on resource allocation, and each month allows for a certain amount of free usage. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/container-apps/)
- Azure Container Registry: Basic tier. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/container-registry/)
- Log analytics: Pay-as-you-go tier. Costs based on data ingested. [Pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/)
- Azure Application Insights pricing is based on a Pay-As-You-Go model. [Pricing](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/cost-logs).

⚠️ To avoid unnecessary costs, remember to take down your app if it's no longer in use, either by deleting the resource group in the Portal or running `azd down`.

### Security Guidelines

Samples in this templates uses Azure OpenAI Services with ApiKey and [Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating to the Azure OpenAI service.

The Main Sample uses Managed Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) for authenticating to the Azure OpenAI service.

Additionally, we have added a [GitHub Action](https://github.com/microsoft/security-devops-action) that scans the infrastructure-as-code files and generates a report containing any detected issues. To ensure continued best practices in your own repository, we recommend that anyone creating solutions based on our templates ensure that the [Github secret scanning](https://docs.github.com/code-security/secret-scanning/about-secret-scanning) setting is enabled.

You may want to consider additional security measures, such as:

- Protecting the Azure Container Apps instance with a [firewall](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/waf-app-gateway) and/or [Virtual Network](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/networking?tabs=workload-profiles-env%2Cazure-cli).

## Resources

- [Deploy a .NET Aspire project to Azure Container Apps using the Azure Developer CLI (in-depth guide)](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/aspire/deployment/azure/aca-deployment-azd-in-depth)

- [Aspiring .NET Applications with Azure OpenAI](https://learn.microsoft.com/shows/azure-developers-dotnet-aspire-day-2024/aspiring-dotnet-applications-with-azure-openai)

### Video Recordings

[![Run eShopLite Semantic Search in Minutes with .NET Aspire & GitHub Codespaces 🚀](./images/90ytrunfromcodespaces.png)](https://youtu.be/T9HwjVIDPAE)
